Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
In 1907.
when Oklahoma became a state.
it became home
to Jim Crow laws
that denied Black people
basic rights.
Sarah Rector?
But since
I was a descendant
of Creek Freedmen.
colored folks who had been
slaves on the Creek Nation.
I was entitled
to a land grant.
As a child
of the Creek Freedmen...
My folks had
received the same grant.
and built our cabin on the
allotment they received.
Now it was my turn to claim
what was rightfully mine.
You sign beautiful.
young lady.
-She could read. too.
-Thank you.
This is the title
to your land.
Keep it safe.
I saw the land
as an opportunity
and compensation
for my ancestor's enslavement.
I had no idea
what to do with it
or whether it was good
for anything.
All I knew
was that it was mine.
I didn't know it.
but that deed
would change my life forever.
Most people thought
the land was worthless.
No good for anything
but tornadoes and snakes.
My Pa said
we had to sell it...
...but I was determined
to keep it.
Do you hear it. Blue?
One day.
that land called to me
and told me its secrets.
I believe the Good Lord
put it in my head.
I heard it loud and clear.
I heard it turnin'
and swirlin' underground
like a fast-moving river.
I knew what it was.
"The big oil combines
and independent wildcatters
"keep rushing to Oklahoma.
"now that gushers
have been discovered
"in the
Cushing-Drumright field
"and on Indian territory!"
That's not far from here.
"Don't be surprised..."
"...if Oklahoma starts
producing millionaires
"like those in East Texas."
What's a millionaire?
Somebody got more money
than us.
Daughter.
if there was oil
on that patch.
they'd have never
given it to you.
They don't know. Pa.
They just find it.
They found some
on Indian land!
When the property tax
come due.
the state gonna want $30.
You got that?
I will once we get oil.
-I know we got oil.
-You know?
How you know. girl?
I heard it.
You can hear it.
Waves and waves of it.
There's oceans down there.
That's just the wind howlin'
and the earth creakin'
and grindin'.
Ain't nothing to it.
God gave me ears
to hear it. Mama.
Well. I like that a whole lot
better than all that.
"I. I. I. mine. mine. mine"
talk we been hearin'.
He gave me that land
for a reason.
Right?
Look. Pa!
No. Sarie. Come on. Come on.
People would
never guess it nowadays.
but Muskogee
was a boomtown back then.
Filled with oilmen.
wildcatters. businessmen.
lawyers. and speculators.
not to mention grifters
and thieves and the like.
-"Condor Oil Company."
-Hmm?
Everybody was out
to grab their piece.
Includin' me. I guess.
What you want in here?
Condor Oil.
That's where you at.
all right. but whatcha want?
Fella work for Condor oil.
There is no one here
you can talk to.
Now be on your way.
Come on.
Not a lot of
Black folks downtown. Pa.
But that no reason to ever
hang your head. You hear?
-Mm-hmm.
-All right.
"J.J. Ransom Oil Company."
Pa. are you okay?
Still standin'.
Not so sure about
this oil business though.
"Pan-Oklahoma Petroleum."
Well. isn't that nice?
All right. come on.
You stay here. Hmm?
-Hello.
-The trash
in Mr. Devnan's office.
You forgot it yesterday?
Mmm. Mmm-hmm.
Whites only. young lady.
Uh. I just want
a cup of water.
I... I got a penny
for a glass of water.
Take your penny
and walk on out.
Oh.
for heaven's sake. Karla.
give the girl
a glass of water.
Fact. you know what?
Make it a glass of lemonade...
and put it on my tab.
-Thank you.
-Hmm.
Thank you. Mister.
-For the lemonade.
-Oh. well.
it's my pleasure. little lady.
My name's Sarah. Sarah Rector.
Is that right?
Go on. now.
Come on. Go.
Go on now. Shoo!
Why you gotta be so mean?
Are you new here?
Yes. sir.
Here.
There's another one
over there.
That... That's not true.
I ain't here
for the trash. I...
I actually came to ask
if you'd dig for oil
-on my daughter's patch.
-Oh.
Uh...
She... She got 160 acres.
And where might that be?
I'm here
to see my pa!
Get back here!
Okay. Okay.
That's all right.
that's all right.
This must be your daughter.
That be her.
How do you do. sir?
Hello.
My name's Sarah Rector.
and I have 160 acres
off the Cimarron Bend.
and there's oil on it.
Well. how do you know that?
I just know. that's all.
Well...
Miss Sarah Rector.
I'm "Big Jim" Devnan.
and I'm a partner
in this oil company.
And we've learned
that blind faith
is a funny thing.
Catches hold of you
and twirls you around
the dance floor
till you're dizzy drunk.
then it leaves you
high and dry.
like a floozy on Saturday...
All right. uh...
Cimarron Bend. you say?
Okay.
Where is...
-This horseshoe right here.
-Ah.
Miss Tant taught us to read
maps at the Vernon School.
Did she now?
Get Trozer.
Yes. sir.
What do you say
we take a little field trip?
What's that for?
Uh.
Bill scouts for Pan-Okie.
He's got more instruments
than you could even
dream of. little girl.
Okay.
Now.
Tom Slick just struck it
on Frank Wheeler's land.
Right here in Glenn Pool.
That's only five miles
from here.
They sho' is gabbin'.
They found something.
Well. you go get
the papers now.
You take your time.
I'll go talk
to little pickaninny
and her pa. all right?
Yes. sir.
Well...
definitely gonna be
a long shot
drilling out here. for sure.
Looking for oil anywhere's
a long shot.
Yeah.
Well. Pan-Okie's
gonna have to shell out
all the money for everything
from the crew to the rig.
We get the roughnecks to erect
the derrick...
...then spud in. drill deep.
then deeper and deeper yet.
hundreds of feet
down the earth.
It's a mighty
undertaking. mighty!
It could take months.
little girl.
You gotta lease
the land first.
You learn about that
in school too. did ya?
Okay.
Standard contract.
Six-month lease
starting from today.
Normally. two bits an acre.
I'll see you
50 cents to start.
I can't explain it.
I'm just...
You bring out
the generous in me.
$1's standard.
Well. how about...
how about 75 cents per?
$1 an acre. Six months.
What about the royalty?
You know about
the royalties too. do you?
The Osage are getting
one-eighth.
Okay. little lady. here it is.
Final offer.
$1 an acre. six-month lease.
and I'll give you eight points
if there's a gusher.
You mean an eighth?
That's 12 and one-half points.
She good with numbers. too.
-Mmm-hmm. Mmm-hmm.
-Yeah. it's adorable.
Eight points.
Take it or leave it.
I wanna read it first.
Okay. Sure. little girl.
You go ahead. You...
You read your contract.
What's a... a royalty?
It's the money we get
from the oil they find.
Hmm.
Huh.
Pan-Okie
started drilling
with men and machines.
a towering derrick. a boiler.
and something they called
a calf-wheel.
Oh. I felt like
Dorothy and Toto
seeing Oz for the first time.
I didn't know
if it would make me rich.
I didn't even know
what rich was.
My only thought was.
would they find enough
to help pay
the $30 property tax
to keep the land?
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
We come up dry.
There's nothing there.
You and the girl
can have it back.
What about the equipment?
Oh. it costs more to haul
it off than just leave it.
so you can keep that too.
Compliments of Pan-Okie.
That day
I learned a hard lesson.
Land is one thing.
but oil is somethin' else.
It's hard to find.
hard to drill.
and even harder to hold on to.
My dream was over.
Told him 100 times.
repair this fossil.
It's not like
he can't afford it.
Fix the vehicle...
or get a new one.
Look at that!
It's everywhere.
Help you. Mister?
That 160-acre plot
in your daughter's name...
I'm here to purchase it.
What you want it for. Mister?
How about we discuss this
man to man?
Go on around back. Sarie.
Now.
It's my land.
You. uh.
got the paper on it?
The deed.
The deed your girl signed.
Why you need it?
I'm here to make you
an offer. Mr. Rector.
I gotta make sure
things are. uh.
on the up-and-up. as they say.
Hmm.
Maybe I ought to be asking you
the same thing.
as they say.
I'll give you $2 per.
What do you think about that?
Well...
think the county office
told me it was worth 3.
Maybe 3.25.
Going cagey on me?
There's one thing
I cannot stomach
even on a Sunday...
it's a cagey coon.
That so?
Well...
It's my baby girl's land.
I gotta get a profit from it.
So. good day.
Okay. fair enough.
Seeing as it's
your baby girl's land.
tell you what.
let's make it 6.
$6?
Final offer.
That's a fair offer.
Mister. uh...
Rasking.
Earl Rasking.
Come on. let's shake on it.
I just need to smooth the way
with my daughter first.
That's my final offer.
More than you deserve.
Tell you that much.
Hmm.
And that is a whole lotta cash
to walk away from.
But why is he here
raining money
after Pan-Okie tells us
there's nothing there?
They found something.
and now they want it
for their own selves.
That Earl
weren't from Pan-Okie.
I don't trust anything he say.
He had eyes like a sneaky pig.
Well. why would he lie?
I got an idea why.
Hmm...
Hey. look. Sarie. uh.
a few days ago. I went over
to the land office.
tried to sell your plot.
-Why'd you do that. Pa?
-Just hold on.
Now. they say I can't sell.
Wanna know why
white folk might lie to us?
You smoke cigars. Mama?
No.
They can do with the land
what they want.
long as they got this here.
The deed.
Hmm.
Hey. Rosie.
put that light out.
Come here. Junior. Come on.
Come on. Come over here.
-Come on. come on.
-You keep real quiet. okay?
They got guns.
What is this?
Joe Rector!
I'm gonna find this deed
if it's the last thing I do.
Striking out.
Nothing.
Nothing!
-Blue!
-No! Sarie!
-Blue! Blue!
-Sarie! Sarie. no!
-No!
-Sarie! Rosie. we'll get him.
Let's scat.
Come on.
How does killing her dog
get me the deed?
You idiot!
Mutt was growling at us.
Mr. Devnan.
Snapping and growling!
All I wanted
was the deed!
We'll go back
and get it for you!
Now they know we want it!
Get him out of my sight.
Oh.
Oh. my God.
Where... Where'd Blue go?
Off somewhere to die.
Now what are you doing. girl?
That deed's a curse.
They shot Blue like nothin'.
and they'll just as soon
shoot us too. Mama.
I'm gonna dig it up
and get rid of it.
No! Come on now.
Now. God gave you that land
for a reason.
Said so yourself.
That's right.
So. why give back
what was given?
Hmm?
Blue?
Bluebonnet?
After
that terrible night.
I didn't know what to do
except look for Blue.
hoping and praying
she was still alive.
Pan-Okie was out to scheme me.
that was clear.
I didn't know what to do
about that. either.
Then. Blue. wherever she was.
led me to that oil camp.
same way she'd chase
a rabbit to its hole.
I wasn't scared to go
among those rough men.
I believed.
What are you doing here.
little sister?
Looking for my dog.
Somebody shot her.
and she dragged off
by herself.
Ain't that like a mutt?
Get outta here.
little girl!
Put me in a tight spot.
Well. this is what we call
a predicament.
Brother. I think
that's checkmate.
Hey. Mister. remember me?
Bertrand Byron Smith...
...at your service.
but you can call me Bert.
Uh. remind me. young lady.
where did we meet?
Busy Bee Cafe.
You told the lady to give me
a glass of lemonade.
Oh. that sounds like me.
You were circling names in
the newspaper with a pencil.
You got the right tiron.
Señorita. That's Bert.
Mining the obituaries
for rich widows.
Hey!
You with an oil outfit?
Uh. well. I'm a wildcatter.
Wildcatter?
Yeah. Looks for oil.
drills for it.
Usually in all
the wrong places.
Hey!
There's a treasure trove
just a-waiting
to be plundered out there.
and you know it.
Oceans of it.
Yes. ma'am. that's right!
It's just a matter
of finding it.
And me?
I am a finder.
I'm a getter.
a wildcatter. investor.
speculator.
businessman
of free enterprise.
and soon to be rich
as King Midas himself.
I got oil all on my land.
Oh. is that right?
Pan-Okie paid me
a dollar an acre
for a six-month lease.
They said it was dry
and ditched me.
That's a shame.
Ain't nothing worse
than a dry hole.
Si. Señorita. it's true.
They sent a swindler to con me
into selling
the land outright.
Offered me $6 an acre
for a dry hole.
Those
thieving bunch of skunks.
Mister. there's a treasure
trove of oil in there.
and I'm looking for a partner
to help me pluck it out.
Well. good luck with that.
honeybee.
but you best be
flyin' on home now.
I'm no honeybee.
My name's Miss Sarah Rector.
and I'm offering you
a business proposition.
but you treat me like a child
which isn't very nice.
Especially since my dog
just died.
Good day.
Now. wait a minute.
Now hang on a second.
You didn't say nothin'
about your dog.
You can't just drop a dead dog
on a man and walk away.
I'm sorry about your dog.
It's all right.
Well. uh.
tell me about your patch.
How'd you get it?
Federal decree. they call it.
Gave me 160 acres
off the Cimarron Bend.
It's bursting
with so much oil.
Pan-Okie tried
to swindle me out of it.
True as a razor.
True as a razor. huh?
Well. it takes a lot more
than optimism
to get oil up out the soil.
Mace and I are not exactly
a poor boy outfit. mind ya.
but we ain't got our own
resources or equipment.
Pan-Okie left rigs.
derricks. boiler. everything.
You wait right here.
You don't move.
Grab your gear. we're going.
We got a stake.
Help me out on this. Bert.
You actually believe...
Hey. hey. hey. I got a feelin'
about this. hermano.
-Let's go. Hustle up.
-Whatever.
Yeah.
This here is. uh. my associate
you met earlier.
Maciero Adolfo Hernandez.
or Mace for short.
You ain't got no problem
with greasers. do you?
Mucho gusto. Señor Hernandez!
Mucho gusto. Señorita.
All right.
let's go take a look-see.
Hold on. We need
to work out our terms.
I was thinking 50-50...
I was thinkin'
the exact same thing.
So. we should have
our lawyers meet.
That's my lawyer.
A Texas handshake.
There ain't nothing
more bindin'.
We're in Oklahoma.
It goes double for Okies!
Here we go.
Now. lead the way. young lady.
Well. I'll be!
You weren't lying.
This is some grade-A equipment
right here.
That's some good ground. too.
Some damn good ground!
How can you tell?
That's a classic
anticline dome.
I mean. look at that. Mace.
it's like Aphrodite's bosom
just bursting out
of Mother Earth's corset.
You're gonna hear things
you've never
heard before. Miss Sarita.
That's right.
See oil.
it's got its own language.
Don't yell at ya.
It don't sing neither.
but it's got a voice
if you got ears to hear.
Like the swoop of an eagle
just flying low
to the ground...
or the huffin' of a bull
just rearing to charge.
Like an ocean
rushing inside your ear?
Ain't many can
recognize its call.
What's it sayin'?
I think it's saying prospects.
Me too! That's what I hear.
Is that right?
I mean.
they just built this here.
My partners insisted
on getting my parents blessin'
before we started drillin'.
Bert said Pan-Okie had
gone through the caprock
and down over 1.000 feet.
So. we started to drill.
Deeper and deeper.
You know. Mace told me that
since Pan-Okie
had abandoned the well.
that it was only right that
I give the rig a new name.
Whoo.
Here you go.
Oh. thank you kindly.
Mrs. Rector.
You're
welcome. Mr. Bert Smith.
So. you fellas
been looking for oil
a while now. have you?
Oh. Mace and I. we're
your typical boom chasers.
Started with gold and silver.
Now oil.
We've seen it all.
done it all.
And lost it all.
"Lost it all"?
Well. how do you do that?
Well. it gets inside of you.
Makes a man do foolish things.
I once made 70 grand
on a gusher.
-70 grand?
-That's right.
and then I lost it all
on the very next dry hole.
Mmm-hmm.
Miss Sarah. you make me
a promise now.
You promise me you ain't
gonna end up like Mace and I.
When you hit it big.
you're gonna save your money.
invest it. and end up rich
like you deserve.
I'll see to that...
...Mr. Bert Smith.
Indeed I will.
Well...
what's your guess.
Mr. Boom chaser?
Anything here?
Oh. there's oil here.
Ain't no doubt about it.
Question is. how much?
We're looking
for a mother pool
to make it worth the effort.
What's a mother pool?
Needs to produce
thousands of barrels a day
for years to come.
Like a good milking cow.
Somebody's coming.
That's him!
Big Jim of Pan-Okie.
-Mace.
-Yeah.
Stay here.
Well. how do. friend?
How can I help you?
You can get off my property.
This is my land.
Working my rig with my tools.
Now. I'll give you 20 minutes
to pack up your things
and leave.
It's my land.
You left the equipment.
said I could have it.
Your land. My mineral rights.
That contract passed.
Well. I got it for six months.
You check that date.
It's smudged.
You erased
the real date underneath.
That's no better than
kids cheatin' at school.
September 9th
was the expiration date.
This is my claim!
Well. it seems to be
a difference of opinion.
Skedaddle.
We did some homework
on your boy.
He's a bunco man.
He's a masher.
That's a fella that cons
women out of their money.
Don't mind a word
of what this liar says.
I'll give you 20 bucks
an acre.
The whole shebang.
What is that? 3.200 cash.
You sent a man
to steal my deed
and kill my dog!
I ain't sellin'!
Well. you heard
the little lady.
Your funeral.
Yes.
we'll gather at the river
The beautiful.
the beautiful river!
What you thinkin'?
They want this tract real bad.
and that means something.
We got oil?
-Lots of it?
-Oh. yeah.
and they're fixin'
to fight us for it.
-This horse.
-That's called a knight.
It can
hop over your pieces?
That's right.
Look at you. you're learning.
Just wanna make sure
before I take your queen.
¡Ay. mamá!
Really?
Hey. Mace. you hearing this?
I gotta get back.
Now. Mace! Now!
-Hold on! I'm coming.
-Now! Right now!
Bert!
-Bert! Bert!
-Sarah. stay back!
Sarah. stay back! Stay back!
Mace! Mace. kick it out!
Kick it out now!
-Bert. she's gonna blow!
-Sarah. get back! Get back!
Get inside. now!
-Ah! Help me up. Bert!
-Come on. Mace. Come on.
-Right.
-Come here.
There we go. Come on. Mace.
Mace. are you okay?
Yeah.
Thank you. sweetheart.
Mace. talk to me.
What's the damage?
She's stuck. Bert.
Golly.
Okay. what's wrong?
Well. it ain't good.
We're nearly 1.500 feet down.
which is where we wanna be.
but this might be
the end of the road. Sarah.
We might be done.
Done? What do you mean?
Listen. when you lose
equipment and tools
that far down. it does damage.
and most oftentimes
you just have to abandon
the well.
Hey. we could
dynamite it loose.
Yeah. and cave
the whole thing in.
Or blast that oil out.
Hell. ride that gusher
all the way to the bank.
First of all.
that's gonna require
muchos explosivos. hermano.
Second of all.
that's a risky proposition.
You wanna risk caving this
whole rig in on a slim maybe?
'Cause I don't think the juice
is worth that squeeze.
personally.
No wonder you guys came up
with nothing but dry holes.
You give up so easy!
Could try a wall hook.
Yes. sir.
There's an idea. A wall hook.
What is that. anyway?
A skinny pipe you drop
inside the stuck pipe.
You twist it around.
pull it free.
Now. here's the thing.
sometimes it works.
sometimes it don't.
And they're
hard to find.
and on top of that. we're
gonna need more equipment.
and all of it's gonna
cost us more money.
Miss Tant says
everything in life has value.
moral value. spiritual value
or economic value.
What do we got here of value?
Who the hell is Miss Tant?
My teacher.
and there's no need to cuss.
You know what?
I think I have an idea.
Let's go get him.
-Howdy.
Howdy. partner.
Got some real nice mud here.
Hoping you might be able
to test it first.
It'll be $10.
Course.
See. here. it's...
10.
Well. that's 5.
All right. here we go now.
1. 2...
Would you settle for 8?
Nope.
All right. I might have
a few more here. Hey.
There's 9.
And there's 10.
The sample. please.
It'll be a couple hours.
And... I can't have you
waiting there.
Course you can't.
Come on. Sarie.
Let's go take a walk outside.
It is a beautiful day
to be outside.
Bertrand Byron Smith.
You don't remember. do you?
Ah...
You claimed to know
my dear departed.
Said he referred to me as
"the angel of his soul."
He was gonna buy
little oil leases in my name.
Yes.
Yes. I remember you. Hi.
It was all applesauce.
wasn't it?
You were gonna come by
and see me.
I was... I am.
Stay here.
I was...
I... I'm going
to come visit you.
I've just been very busy.
you know...
...down
at the church
and the local... orphanage.
Do you think I just
slip out of my bloomers
for any man that comes along?
No. ma'am.
Well. take a lonely girl to
dinner. don't just disappear.
A woman's husband dies.
people act like she did. too.
It's a shame. really.
What happened
to the sugar talk?
Or are you too busy
babysitting?
Oh. no. no. No.
Just busy. like I said.
You said I was a song.
I'll be along...
Don't you fret
I'll be along.
you won't regret
That's more like it.
We'll be seein' you.
Has a magic about him.
don't he. darling?
I don't wanna talk about it.
I ain't gonna say nothing.
Let's go get your oil.
Okay. then.
It's a good sample.
-All right?
-All right.
But it's not easy oil.
and it's not good oil.
What I mean by "not easy"
is it's likely down
a few more thousand feet.
A few more thousand feet?
You gotta be kidding me.
And when I say
it's not good oil.
I mean it's heavily tainted
with saltwater.
So deep. so tainted.
there's likely to be
little to no money there.
I'm sorry to convey bad news.
-Come on. Sarah. Come on.
-I can mail you a full report.
No. Don't bother.
My advice is. tie it off
and move on to the next.
All right.
How long we gonna sit here?
Well. as long as it takes.
Hold on.
Hey there. buckaroo.
-You going somewhere?
-I don't see
how that concerns you.
Look at that. You just
heading down to Pan-Okie
with our sample. ain't ya?
You better start talking.
or I'll break your neck
right here. right now.
I can explain.
No. I can explain.
Well. then do it.
Tell me the damn truth!
I can explain...
Okay. okay. okay.
Pan-Okie pays me.
Yeah? And now tell me
the truth about that sample.
It's better than I said.
but it's preliminary.
I can't say any more
or Devnan will kill me.
Give me that.
This ain't yours.
This yours. darling. Now let's
get out of this two-bit town.
Whoo! I knew it!
Ooh. I knew that boy
was acting shifty.
I could see it
in his beady little eyes.
We gotta get it tested proper.
That's right.
and I hear there's. uh.
some old cat supposed
to be a geologist
in this coon town
up here. so...
I'm sorry.
I did not mean that.
I was not thinkin'.
That kinda talk's automatic
with some people.
I know. but that ain't me.
and I'm sorry.
I thought you were
better than that.
I thought my color
didn't matter!
It don't! It don't. Sarah.
Please forgive me.
It says that in the good book.
That's right.
That's right. It does.
It surely does.
Where?
Where in the Bible
it talk about forgiving?
I mean. a lot of places.
you know.
Lot of places. There's. uh...
Out at that lake!
You know. and the mount.
where Jesus was at the.
you know.
doin' all them fishin' and
loavin' and all that stuff.
I doubt you ever
been in a church.
I used to go to church
before I got oil fever.
That's Taft.
It's a Black town.
My town.
Hello?
-Hello to you.
-Uh...
I been wildcattin' this young
lady's field. and we'd...
Got a sample here we'd love
for you to take a look at.
-That so?
-Yes. that's so.
-I'm asking her.
-Oh.
-Where's your people?
-Here in Taft.
My pa's Joe Rector.
I know your folks.
Why didn't you say so?
They know
Mr. Bert's helping me.
Hmm.
Looking for black tea on that
spread of yours. are you?
Hmm?
Let's see what you got.
You don't happen
to know anyone
from Pan-Oklahoma Petroleum.
do you?
No. sir. I worked
with independents mostly.
Poor boy operations. Injuns.
and colored folks.
And. uh. are you a geologist?
Well. I'm no professor.
Didn't study any
of the prescribed courses
at the recognized schools.
if that's what you askin'.
But I have studied
the earth more.
and I knows as much about it
as any professional geologist
now breathin'.
Well. I have no doubt
about that.
Yeah.
It'll be $5.
Of course. Uh...
Hang on.
Right. um...
There ya are.
Take about an hour. if you'd
like to walk around town.
We'll wait right here...
if you don't mind.
Suit yourself.
Whoo-whee!
"Whoo-whee"? What's that mean?
What you think it mean.
white fella?
All right.
step right up to the counter.
and I'll tell you what we got.
Now. I can give you
the technicals.
like the college boys.
the chemical breakdowns and
all. if that's what you want.
No. no. No. Just give us
the meat. What have we got?
It's your field. Sarah.
What's your preference?
-Meat's good. please.
-All right.
Now hold on to your hat.
'cause I've never seen
anything like it.
It's crude. all right.
through and through.
but it's got a density
that's alarming.
Did you get a gravity reading?
Lightest sample
I've ever taken.
How light?
I calculate
just over 40 degrees.
Hot damn!
Quit cussing. Bert!
Well. listen to the man.
Go on. go on. tell her.
The crude is so pure.
it has no real color once
it's separated from the mud.
You could tell by the smell.
Take a whiff.
That field
you're sitting on
could be the richest
in all Oklahoma.
You're down deep enough.
if I was a bettin' man.
I would say
you have trainloads.
Oceans.
Yes. ma'am.
And I think
it's safe to assume
that Pan-Okie knows
we got quality oil.
Yeah.
and we got a junked hole.
Only other play
is to work another well.
Work...
Work another well?
This is the well. amigo.
-There ain't no other wells.
-It's no good. carnal.
We have been workin'
our entire lives
for a strike like this.
For all we know. the whole
well is skunked by now.
We need money. amigo.
Hard cash.
But how are we gonna get it?
Rob a bank?
That is not fried chicken.
No. sir. it ain't.
That's collateral.
The best kind there is.
That there represents
riches beyond imagination.
I mean. that's what you need
for a bank loan. ain't it?
Well. yes. sir.
And I'm assumin' you can read
a core sample report?
Well. is this your well. sir?
I wish it was. but no.
it's hers. Out there.
The colored girl?
The girl.
Now. her name is Sarah Rector.
and you're gonna be
hearing a lot about her.
Here's the thing. um.
we need a wall hook.
They're expensive.
as you know.
I'm happy with a used one
if I can find it. though.
How much do you need.
Mr.. um...
-Smith?
-About $1.000.
2. uh. at the most.
Well. you need a wall hook.
You expect me to loan
on a clogged well?
That's kinda risky.
Well. life's all about
taking risks. ain't it?
Not for a bank.
Have a good day.
You have a good day too.
I didn't mean it.
You just have to do more
thinkin' and praying.
Hey. ain't no hole
ever been unstuck through
thinkin' and prayin'.
Ask and ye shall receive.
Yeah. I got us a nice table...
Well. hello. gorgeous.
You look so lovely today.
Come on. now. I got
a table for us just inside.
That lady at the store said
that was handmade lace
straight from Par-ee.
Oh. it's beautiful.
And I said.
"Well. that's perfect
"'cause this is for a lady
"who is the finest lady
"I have ever laid eyes on."
-Oh. Bert.
-Hi. I'm Sarah.
Bert's business partner.
Remember me?
What are you doing in here.
young lady?
Bert. what in the hell?
Hey. come on. Karla.
ain't no need
to cause a ruckus.
Has Bert properly presented
our proposition. ma'am?
We need that equipment.
you see. and it's costly.
but we're sitting on some
mighty pure dinosaur juice.
He said y'all need
to put in near $1.000.
We need 2.000.
and we need it today.
Bert was talking
to this other gal.
she's nice and all.
Her dearly deceased
left her loads of money.
Fatter than a Kansas hog.
Don't think he likes her
as much as you. though.
There's little more to it
than that...
Marshal. Are you
gonna do anything about that?
...ain't it. young lady Sarah?
Can't a fella just eat
his steak and eggs
in peace. Karla?
What's more to it. Bert?
Explain it to me.
What kinda proposition
are you explaining
to this fine lady of Muskogee?
My God.
she talks like you.
Darndest thing. ain't it?
Uh. this is a conversation.
Sarah.
This is not an ultimatum.
I thought we were here
to talk business.
Maybe you have something else
on your mind?
You got something else
on your mind. sugar?
Yeah. uh.
that this meeting
has come to a close. ladies.
Not a meeting anymore. Bert.
It's a partnership.
Well. ain't that nice?
Come on.
get outta here.
All right. we got everything?
Fuse boxes. cord.
blasting cap?
All there.
You planning on
blowing up Muskogee?
Yeah.
something like that.
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 765.
Lordy. that's a lot of money
for all this equipment.
Not for them's
that can afford it.
Hey. hey. hey. hey. hey.
She's with me.
Yeah. I heard about you.
You ought to be ashamed.
Yeah. you're that fella that's
been working that ni...
Stupid hillbilly.
I ain't like him. Sarah.
I ain't.
I know.
Well. hey.
What's. uh...
See if she knows anything.
What's the commotion?
-Excuse us.
-Come here. sweety.
What's wrong. Mama?
What's happenin'. Marshal?
Tomorrow's paper.
Couple Creek Nation kids
murdered in their sleep.
Murdered?
We're out here
spreading the word
to the families that got land.
Do you know them?
No. ma'am.
Sarah does.
You got any idea
who'd do this and why?
They got oil fields
on tribal land.
You figure it out.
Who are you?
Let's go. Marshal.
They was. uh...
They was in her class
at school.
Killing kids
to get a hold of they land?
I really am starting
to believe
this oil ain't nothin'
but a curse.
My baby ain't safe. is she?
I don't know.
Nah.
Now. listen to me.
Mr. Bert Smith.
you better know.
You the one got us into this.
and I don't know if you are
god-sent or hell-bound.
but that girl
is the salt of my earth
and the sun in my sky.
Nothin' happens to her.
Nothin'...
happens to her.
-You hear me?
-Yes. ma'am.
What'd you give up
for those pesos. cabrón?
Hey. this ain't the time.
Hey. I sold my plot in Mesilla
for the banknotes
that got us here. remember?
-Huh?
-Yeah.
What'd you give those widows?
More than you own. I bet.
You know. that kinda deal
gets you thrown
in the jailhouse.
and a necktie party
for your Mexican amigo!
Hey. we needed money.
and I got that money.
You're welcome. partner.
Now let's get this
wall hook working
so that engine starts purrin'.
and then you can start
yellin' at me again
when we're covered in oil!
-We all right?
-We're fine!
Fine!
Okay.
Just like an old
married couple.
You started it!
Okay. we got the juice.
Start her up!
She's purring.
cabrón. she's purring.
Whoo. boy!
Wow. look at that.
All right.
Kick it out! Kick it out!
Kick it out!
Shit!
Damn it.
Mace. get that engine
purrin' again.
The drilling line's
stuck.
What difference does it make?
And re-rig all them belts!
Everything's gotta
look like it's workin'.
Finish your snack. Junior.
Mama'll be right back.
All y'all stay up there.
And no guns neither.
There's too many of 'em.
Sarah. don't you move.
Well!
Would that be
the young Miss Sarah Rector?
You can stop right there.
Mister...
Caron. Edward Caron. Esquire.
Legal counsel
for Pan-Oklahoma Petroleum.
I just have some papers here
I'd like to serve
the young lady.
What's all that about?
Oh. We bought up some acreage.
You know.
we're gonna start drilling.
Now. in there
you will find a legal filin'
to return
all of Pan-Okie's equipment.
as well as the claim
on all oil and proceeds
derived from the use
of said equipment.
And we also filin'
a claim to the land
based on the sub-lease
that Miss Sarah Rector signed
with Pan-Oklahoma
before she...
Well. before she unlawfully
kicked us off the property.
An 11-year-old girl
booted you outta here.
That must be so embarrassing.
Yeah.
We can. uh. make arrangements
to come back
and retrieve our equipment
at a...
Any of you Pan-Okie goons
steps foot on this land.
and I mean workmen.
accountants. or lawyers.
and we'll shoot you.
This mean we're done. Bert?
It don't mean nothing
of the sort. Now take that.
Listen to what
I'm telling you. Stay here.
Say. could we. uh...
could we speak in private
for a moment?
All right.
My employer. who is seated
in the car over there
is prepared to make you
a very generous offer.
-Is that right?
-Mm-hm.
You know as well as I do
that this whole thing
could be wrapped up
in the courts for years and...
Why. nobody wants that.
Legal fees alone
will gobble up any profit
that little girl
could ever dream of.
and your profit
right along with it.
Why don't we. uh. have
a little conversation?
Get in.
Well. that's a mighty fine
invitation. sir.
but I think
I'm gonna have to pass...
-Stop it!
-You ain't got...
No! Let him go!
Let him go!
All right. enough!
Come on.
What a wonderful business
we're in.
Drill a hole in the earth.
and out comes oil.
You sell the oil.
you spud more wells.
pretty soon you got a field.
You sell stock.
you capitalize.
next thing you know.
you're a trust with wells
all over the country.
And what's a girl that age
gonna do
with all that scratch?
Buy Kewpie dolls?
The courts have concerns.
you know.
Local judges
are tired of dealing with
the uneducated and underage
ex-slave population.
State's insisting
on guardians.
White guardians.
Now. all we need is the deed
and her signature on this.
You sell us the land outright
in her name.
Fifteen points. All proceeds.
Well...
well. you and I are cut
from the same cloth.
Standard royalty.
Twelve and a half.
Listen here.
If you want me
to welsh on this girl.
you gotta make it
worth it for me.
and that's fifteen points
or you get nothing.
Just get us the paper we need
and the signature.
and then we'll figure out
something...
Have your boy
write up in the deal
it's fifteen points.
or you get nothin'.
Meanwhile. I gotta figure out
how I can square it all.
You do that.
we got a deal.
Hey. just so we're clear.
I ain't nothing like you.
Well. that's fine...
but you or your darkies
ever point a weapon
at me again.
any weapon.
you won't live
to spend a dime.
Get off'a this land.
Bert!
Bert. are you okay?
Come on.
let's go inside.
Let me take a look
at them bruises.
I'm fine. I'm fine.
I think it's best
y'all head home now.
Take a rifle with you.
Oh. Lord have mercy.
They bring in lawyers
and the like to come in here
and steal the land from us.
I understand.
Bert. it's like I said to you.
I don't want her ending...
If they want it.
they can have it!
No. Mama! This is my land.
We ain't givin' in to thieves.
Please! Please.
All right. all right.
all right. Come on.
-Joe.
-All right. all right.
let's get on back. Come on.
White guardians?
So. what's the play here.
Bert?
You tell me.
I told you the deal is 15%.
all in. You and me.
She gets nothing. hmm?
You heard her mama.
They want out.
The well is spiked.
The best thing we can do
is let the big dogs come in.
spud a new well.
and get some proceeds
to start rollin' in.
You know. I've grown
kinda fond of the kid.
It's the same play as always.
amigo.
We're here to get rich.
-So we steal it?
-This ain't...
This ain't stealin'.
Then what do you call it.
cabrón?
Mace. what world
are you livin' in. huh?
'Cause the world
I'm livin' in.
no colored girl's
gonna be allowed to keep
a mother pool this size.
Yeah. we can change that.
With all the money
and the influence
that we have?
We start fooling around.
she could end up dead
in the bargain.
We're doing her a favor!
Besides. I'm gonna
make it up to her afterward.
Yeah. some amigo you are.
You and your Texas handshake.
Pendejo.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
Blue!
Bluebonnet!
Blue! Blue!
-Lord's mercy.
-Come on. come on. come on!
My God.
My... my Blue.
How you feel. baby doll?
My dog's returned
from the dead.
I'm fine as a thistle.
If I'd have
asked you before...
what you would give
to have old Blue back.
what would you have said?
Everything. Mama.
I'd give everything
to have her back.
You still feel that way?
It's a sign.
I believe in signs.
All right. Sarah...
go ahead and take...
take a look at this here.
I'm gonna need you
to sign that.
So...
Oh. y'all got a new dog.
I see.
Same one.
She came back to us.
Well. that's a sign.
This makes you
the boss of my life.
In a manner of speaking.
That's what a guardian is.
Uh...
You know. someone to help
smooth your affairs.
Ain't we her guardians?
Well. you is.
Uh. and you ain't.
There's two kinds of law
in Oklahoma.
One for whites and one for us.
Yeah. it's true.
and it ain't right.
But Pan-Okie.
they're gonna act on that.
Devnan told me as much.
So. I need you to trust me.
I need you to trust a man
who knows the system.
A man who knows
how to work the system.
This is so you can
protect me... right?
Yes. ma'am.
That is precisely
what I aim to do.
Well done. Sarah.
I'll take that.
All right. well. the court
is gonna have a hearin'
to make sure
everything's verified.
and we're all gonna need
to be there. All of us.
Texas handshake?
Don't mind if I do.
Thank you for trusting me.
Thank you for your time.
A man like that.
no roots.
chasing riches all his life.
Is he gonna
do the right thing?
You saw him.
We shook hands.
Well. you sure did. Sarie.
But he himself told us
he lost 70 grand on a gusher.
Then Devnan said
he stole it
-on a silver deal.
-Devnan's a liar.
Sometimes there's truth
in lying mouths!
Listen up now.
Now. I won't have this.
not at our own kitchen table!
Now. not one of us can see
into that man's heart.
but there's something
we can do.
Tomorrow we can walk into that
courtroom 10 feet tall.
heads held high.
'cause they might have
the money and the titles.
but we have the dignity.
You may have to speak
before the judge.
You best know that.
I don't know what to say
in front of all those people.
God'll give you
the words. baby.
God'll give you the words.
Do Lord. do Lord
Do remember me
By the time
of the court hearing.
the white Guardians had become
an issue of controversy.
Many were stealing
their trustees' land outright.
and making deals
with the big oil companies.
This hearing
is regarding a task
of great import. Mr. Smith.
Guardianship.
Its purpose
is to allow the court
to appoint a guardian...
Word had spread
about the treasure chest
of oil hidden under my land.
People from all over attended.
and newspapers
from around the country
were there to cover the story.
The state
is asking you to act
in the best interest
of the young lady...
Sarah Rector. Is she present?
I'm here.
Well. come forward.
young lady.
Your Honor.
I volunteer my services
on behalf of Miss Rector.
If she accepts.
Miss Barnard...
With the murder
of two local Creek children
and the numerous instances
of grafter guardians
robbing underage inheritors
of all wealth in our state.
it is only right
that I represent this child.
Miss Bernard.
please have a seat.
Come forward. young lady.
Come on in. Sarah.
Is that your signature?
Yes. sir.
Do you agree to Mr. Smith
acting on your behalf
in all financial
and legal matters?
He's a good man.
But why can't my parents
do it?
Miss Rector...
Oh. They're colored.
and colored folks
can't be trusted with money.
Ain't that right?
The state
gave me that property
on account of my ancestors.
I knew in my soul
there was oil on it.
My folks believed me
and so did Mr. Smith.
even though Pan-Okie
said it was dry.
It's funny.
When the land
had only weeds and lizards.
it was all mine.
but when people found out
there was oil on it.
they started thinking
it's theirs.
and I have to get
a white guardian.
All I'm asking
is to keep what's mine.
What was given
fair and square.
Isn't that
what the law is for?
To tell right from wrong.
so the world's a better place?
Amen.
-Amen!
-Amen. that's right!
All right. All right.
Quiet.
Quiet in the court!
Did your parents tell you
what to say before
-you came to court today?
-Yes.
What exactly
they tell you to say?
The truth.
Amen.
This hearing is adjourned.
Guardianship retained
by Mr. Smith.
Nobody but you. Lord.
Ain't no judge.
ain't no marshal.
ain't no law.
Amen! Amen!
Nobody but you. Lord!
-Sarah. come on.
-Nobody but you
Nobody but you. Lord!
Nobody but you
You brought me through. Lord
Yeah. you brought me through
Nobody but you. Lord
Nobody but you
When I was in danger...
So. what now? You're gonna
make a deal with Devnan?
With Pan-Okie?
Hey. they're not the only ones
gonna be stepping forward.
Be careful. amigo.
You ain't got no vision. Mace.
-Hey. Bert.
-Hey.
Me and Rose was talking and.
Miss Barnard here.
we want you to give her
a copy of them papers.
You know.
so's that we can keep track
of all that's goin' on.
Yeah. that sounds
fair enough to me.
I'll need it all. Mr. Smith.
Ain't no problem at all.
Miss Barnard.
Thank you.
but you can wipe
that smirk off your face.
You are lookin'
at the first American woman
elected to a state post
when women don't even
have the right to vote.
So. be prepared for me
to press you on this.
Is that clear?
It's clear as crystal.
Miss Barnard.
Thank you.
That was a mighty fine speech
in there. You all right?
Miss Barnard.
She don't like you.
She don't trust you either.
Yeah. well.
I need you to trust me.
That's all I ask.
I suggest we sit down
and go over your rights.
We ain't got no rights.
Hearing just proved that.
Ma'am...
respectfully. I disagree.
Well. looking real sharp
today. Mr. Smith.
Well. thank you kindly.
counselor.
I'm plannin' on looking
this good from now on.
Well. that's what
we wanted you to come up
and talk about.
Fifteen points.
Not just for her land.
but for every parcel
around it.
Otherwise. there ain't
no point in goin' upstairs.
-Well...
-Hell...
Um. you're guardian
for hers alone.
Which is where
the 40.6 gravity is.
and also why
you're takin' a flier
and all them parcels
around it.
While I'm sitting on paydirt.
That's... yeah.
Uh. Mr. Smith...
We are. uh...
we're interested.
Please.
And I want
her safety guaranteed.
All it takes
is your signature.
Sarie.
Bert!
Hey.
What's goin' on. kiddo?
You said you'd protect me.
You said you'd do right by me.
And I am.
I got me a plan cookin'.
By meeting with crooks?
Are you going to give
my land to Pan-Okie?
Listen here. young lady.
The oil industry
is tough custard. all right?
We're dealing with some mighty
devious folks over here.
So. we gotta be devious too?
When the game is rigged.
it's best you do the riggin'.
They got wells all around
your property. Sarah.
They're stealin' oil
right out from under us.
We were partners!
Friends.
-A team.
-You'll get your share.
-That's not what it's about!
-Well. then. what is it about?
Your soul...
Mr. Bert Smith.
My what?
Your soul.
Yippee.
Let's get outta
these Sunday clothes.
-Thank you.
-Thank you. Mace.
-My pleasure.
You okay?
I saw something back there.
I wanna see what it is.
Hold on. I'll come with you.
Better you stay
with the family.
It's likely nothing.
Okay.
-Thank you. Mace.
-You got it. Joe.
He spotted us.
What are you doin' out here?
Y'all need to turn around.
leave these people alone.
Creek Nation.
south stream. now.
I want you to run.
and you know where.
-Open up!
-Now!
I love you both.
-Now. go now! Run!
-Go on. now.
-Junior. go!
-Go!
We'll find you.
Open up!
Where's the girl?
Where's the girl at?
Don't see how
that's your business!
They got guns!
Let's scat.
Put your eyeballs
back in your head.
Hey. it's just
I ain't never seen
no lady driver before. so...
This is Mr. Pharr.
He's just arrived by train
from the NAACP office
in Chicago.
He writes for their newspaper.
and I'm takin' him
to meet the Rector family.
Hey. you mind
if I ride with you?
Mace was supposed
to come pick me up.
but I ain't seen him.
All right!
Hello!
Mr. and Mrs. Rector!
It's Kate Barnard!
Howdy.
It's Kate Bernard.
This is Mr. Gabriel Pharr...
from the NAACP in Chicago.
Where's Sarah? Where's Mace?
And what are you doing
with that rifle?
There was two men.
Pan-Okie thugs.
They was asking
for Sarie.
I had to shoot
to get 'em to leave.
Where is Sarah?
I sent her off
with Junior and our dog.
Creek territory.
And what about Mace?
Don't know.
Mace?
You didn't deserve this. Mace.
It's 'cause
you put in with me.
Sarah's next.
You know that. don't you?
And they won't blink
at killing you either.
I done gave 'em
what they wanted.
They could've killed us
any time.
No.
Not until she signed.
If she died before.
then the rights return
to the state. but after.
they maintain legal claim
to the land
based on what you signed over.
Still. why kill her?
So I or someone
like me can't come
charging back into court.
They outfoxed you.
Look. they don't need her.
and they don't need you.
All they needed was the paper.
What if we go back
to that judge?
to that judge
and we cancel
the guardianship?
We give it to you?
Well. we would need
Sarah for that.
Then we gotta find her
before they do.
We spent
the night on Creek territory.
As Mama had instructed.
we waited
by the south stream
hopin' it wouldn't be too long
before my folks
came to get us.
We were scared.
tired. and thirsty.
You seen the colored girl?
Well?
We just want the girl.
I prayed like
I'd never prayed before.
or since.
Dear Lord...
I could
barely think of words.
All I remember saying was.
"Help me. Jesus! Help me!"
Over and over
like a heartbeat.
-Junior.
-Hm?
Go! Now!
Run! Go!
Tribal police!
Don't move!
You're under arrest!
-Tribal police!
-No trespassing!
Put down
your weapons!
Drop it now!
Put down your guns.
Put 'em down!
I see 'em too.
Sarah! Junior!
-Mama!
-Sarie.
Mama!
-Sarah!
-Mama!
-Sarie.
-Junior!
Don't move!
All right. All right.
My baby!
You're under arrest
for the attempted murder
of Sarah Rector
on Creek Nation territory.
And the murder
of Mace Hernandez!
What?
Mace?
They murdered Mace?
I'm sorry. Sarah.
It's all right.
I'm sorry for everything.
Your Honor. the young lady's
guardianship
needs to be re-examined.
-Is that so?
-I'm afraid that is the case.
The Negro press is here.
along with newspapers from
every part of the country.
America is watching. Judge.
Her life remains in danger.
This cannot be delayed.
But she already
signed it over to him.
Unless there's
some kind of error
or ambiguity in here.
You're not from around here.
are you?
It's Texas. right?
That's right. ma'am. Texas.
-Mr. Smith.
-Yes. sir?
You signed indicating you were
a full resident of Oklahoma.
Well. I've been
around here a while.
You know.
wildcatting and such.
Well. even though it's not
stated in the paperwork.
full residency is implied.
Can you prove full residency?
Well. when you put it
like that...
Uh. no. No. not actually.
Well. I'm afraid
this guardianship
is null and void.
and the court
cannot uphold it.
Miss Rector.
come here.
We need to secure your safety
by appointing you
another guardian.
How would you feel
about Miss Barnard?
I'd like that.
Thank you. Judge.
Now. Sarah. there might be
some reporters out there.
so you just need
to nod and smile.
Okay?
I'll be notifying Pan-Okie
of the revised guardianship.
but they will contest
and I doubt very much
if they'll abide.
Be prepared for them
to physically
claim the property.
In disputes like this.
possession becomes
nine-tenths of the law.
-Thank you. Your Honor.
-Yeah. thank you.
I'll alert
the Marshal if that helps.
The Rectors are going
to need attorneys.
the best that there are.
Did you not hear the man?
This ain't goin' to court.
Pan-Okie's gonna try
and take that land.
and there's only one thing
we can do to stop 'em.
Fortunately. that's something
I do know about.
This brewed?
-Mm.
-All right.
You think it's gonna be safe
out there tomorrow?
No.
No. I do not.
Is that why I see dynamite?
What's that for?
Joe?
It's him or us. Rose.
So. we goin' to war here?
We buried that dynamite
underground. ma'am.
About 1.000 feet underground.
to be exact.
So. either that well is gonna
cave in on itself. or...
Or what?
Or it's gonna bring forth
everything we've been
hoping for.
Either way.
if Devnan and his men
cross the line.
that's the best chance we got.
You can see we're coming
under a white flag.
We just wanna talk.
Just talk. huh?
Yeah.
Wagon.
Sarah.
Sir.
-Okay. Come on.
-Okay.
Come on.
I'm back again.
Can't deny a dog his dinner.
I claim legal right
of entry
based on papers signed
by the guardian of this land.
Those papers
have been nullified
by Judge Leahy
and you know it.
You are trespassing.
You people want a war?
No. sir.
Just go and get on your side
of the fence.
That's all we asking.
As a rule.
I'm a peaceable man...
but sometimes...
Machine gun!
Get back.
Behind the car. Go.
-It's okay. it's okay...
-Stay down. stay.
-I want to.
-Wha...
It's my well.
I'm the one to do it.
Take all your men
and clear off.
This is my property now.
this is my well!
Be quick about it then.
Come on now.
Don't push me.
Dear Lord...
guide these hands
-so no one gets hurt.
-Give me that gun.
You boys aim at flesh.
You hear that?
They're aiming at you.
Next flesh gonna be yours.
Devnan.
Get down. Get down!
That roustabout's
skunking my well!
No.
-Hey! Hey!
-Sarie!
That's my gusher!
That's my oil!
-No. it ain't!
-Oh. the girl.
No!
Uh-uh. Devnan. I would not
do that if I was you.
Look here.
See. uh...
We took the liberty
of wirin' up your wells too.
Just in case you wanted
to do something foolish.
This is my land. Devnan.
-And you know it.
-Quiet!
Stop!
Get off of me!
How about that?
Y'all be careful. there!
Get up there.
Looks like your wildcatting
days are over.
Well. I ain't so sure
about that.
I might have made me
some side deals that's. uh.
come back to bite me.
Oh.
Huh.
Them kids of yours...
they're awful lucky
to have a mama like you.
Thank you. Bert.
-There you are.
-Bert. Bert.
Bert. where are you going?
Away from here. That's where.
The good part's just starting.
Sarie. them widows up there.
they own 250% of my share.
and the law
don't look too kindly
-on something like that.
-We're partners.
No matter what the law says.
I'll help you.
You think I'm gonna
take your money?
I ain't gonna take your money.
I got better sense than that.
Besides. you taught me things.
Don't you understand?
No.
You talked to me
about my soul.
Ain't nobody ever done that.
Ain't nobody ever cared.
We're treasure hunters.
you and I.
Yeah. and we found it.
That's right. we did...
and I'm gonna take mine
'cause it don't weigh nothing
and I don't need no bank
to hold on to it for me.
I'm gonna put it right here.
right next to Mace.
Hey. now.
Please. don't go.
Hey. it's all right now.
It's all right. No...
Ain't no need for crying.
You know. there's another
treasure out there somewhere.
Can you hear it?
It's just a-chattering
and a-glittering.
Just waiting for me
to find it.
Just yearning to burst free.
Probably buried underneath
that hill out yonder.
Can you see it?
I bet you can
if you look real close.
Please don't go. Bert. Please.
Hey. me?
I'm a finder. A getter.
A wildcatter. investor.
speculator.
Businessman of free enterprise
and soon to be rich
as King Midas himself.
True as a razor that is.
True as a razor.
I never saw Bert again.
Years later.
I came to understand
his treasure wasn't oil.
gold. or silver.
or anything hiding
in Mother Earth.
It was prospects.
the call.
the adventure
just beyond the horizon.
I did meet other folks.
John D. Rockefeller.
the richest man in the world.
came to town
and we cut a deal.
I was a natural-born
negotiator.
or so he told me.
Mr. Rockefeller and his
Standard Oil Company
paid $36 million
for the rights to my land
and surrounding lots
known as
the Cushing-Drumright pool.
and I got 12.5% royalty.
I moved to Kansas City
and hosted cultural events
where Duke Ellington
and Count Basie performed.
and the great boxer
Jack Johnson
put on exhibitions.
But the first thing
I did with my money
when I was 11 years old...
was buy the Busy Bee Cafe.
and open it to everyone.
As my mama said.
"God gave you gifts.
"the only sin
is not to use 'em."
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-